Postgresql 9.4 Administration

---------------------
Intro to Databases


Database - an organized collection of data.

DBMS - Database management system. tools and utilities to capture data for the end user.
Data can be imported/exported between DBMS with some changes to datatypes.

-----------------------
Data Normalization

Process used to reduce/eliminate the redundancy of data in a database.

If there's multiple instances of the same data, may not know every location of copies of data and cause synchronization to fail.


Three forms of normalization:
Objective is to reduce storage, increase referential integrity and logically structure data.


1NF - Contains no repeating groups of data in a database structure.
2NF
3NF

There are higher forms but they're rarely needed.


-----------------
Indexes, Relationships, and Keys


Index - internal structure that improves the speed of retrieval on a database table. Not created automatically.
Should plan ahead when creating index. May require additional storage and memory to create.

Data relationship - existence of one field of data that exists in multiple tables.

Keys - Keys help keeps all the records "straight"

Primary key - unique for each record in that table.
Foreign key - Used to create relationships between tables in a database.


----------------------------
Introduction to RDBMS


Relational Database Management System

A DBMS that's based on the relational database model. Most common form of DBMS.

Key Concepts:

Data is organized into tables of rows/columns with a unique key for each row.

Each entity type (customers, locations, items, etc) has its own table.

Each row within an entity type represents an instance of that type

Each column represents values in those instances

Rows in a table can be linked to rows in other tables through the storage of unique key of the row it needs to be linked to (foreign key)

Use SQL as the language for managing the database.



------------------------------
Introduction to PostgreSQL 9.4


PostgreSQL - representation of a set of utilities and software to manage relational data (and unstructured too)

Classified as an RDBMS. Open source.



-----------------------
Downloading PostgreSQL

(Nothing much to add in, old information)


